README.md, before:

# az-projects
Azure projects created by me, showcasing the power of the Azure Platform

# vmfleetcommander | Factorio
Automates the deployment of an Ubuntu VM in Azure and sets up a Factorio server. 
This script creates a resource group based on a given name (user prompt), a virtual network, separate subnets, NICs, NSG rules, dynamic IP address (for SSH access), and an auto power off at 2100 rule (9:00PM PST). UDP port 34197 is also opened publicly using an NSG rule. 

A user prompt: `$publicIp` is used to create an NSG rule that only allows for SSH access into your VM from your public IP address. 

On deployment, this runs a bash script `server_config.sh` and ensures the latest updates are available/installed. 
`fail2ban` and `net-tools` are also installed. 

Download the latest Factorio headless [server files](https://factorio.com/get-download/stable/headless/linux64) using `wget`.
Extract the downloaded folder contents and generate a new save file. Start the server and test connectivity. 

Server specs:
- Standard B2s [2 vCPU]
- 4GB RAM
- 32GB Standard HDD LRS

*Skills Measured*:
- VM deployment/configuration using Powershell and Bash
- Azure Networking and NSG configuration
- Server configuration and automation with scripts

## TO DO
- Add SSH private key (or public key) to Azure Key Vault for more secure access to VM. 
- Create an ARM Template to deploy multiple VMs
- Create a VM Scale Set to have better control on the number of VMs as needed.

Commit message:

fixed init_script.sh, works now. Updated powershell script and README

README.md, after:

# az-projects
Azure projects created by me, showcasing the power of the Azure Platform

# vmfleetcommander | Factorio
Automates the deployment of an Ubuntu VM in Azure and sets up a Factorio server. 
This script creates a resource group based on a given name (user prompt), a virtual network, separate subnets, NICs, NSG rules, dynamic IP address (for SSH access), and an auto power off at 2100 rule (9:00PM PST). UDP port 34197 is also opened publicly using an NSG rule. 

A user prompt: `$publicIp` is used to create an NSG rule that only allows for SSH access into your VM from your public IP address. 

On deployment, this runs a bash script `server_config.sh` and ensures the latest updates are available/installed. 
`fail2ban` and `net-tools` are also installed. 

Download the latest Factorio headless [server files](https://factorio.com/get-download/stable/headless/linux64) using `wget`.
Extract the downloaded folder contents and generate a new save file. Start the server and test connectivity. NOTE: `the mod_list.json` file in the `mods` folder may need to be tweaked. Some mods are on by default, though these are paid expansions.

Server specs:
- Standard B2s [2 vCPU]
- 4GB RAM
- 32GB Standard HDD LRS

*Skills Measured*:
- Automated VM deployment/configuration using Powershell. Specify VM size/SKU, disk size, and OS image.
- Server configuration and automation with Bash scripts.
- Understanding of networking principles, as Network Security Groups (NSG), Azure Virtual Networks (VNet), subnets, and network interfaces (NIC).
- Knowledge of cost optimization strategies: auto-shutting down VMs to save on resources and manage cloud expenses. 
- Infrastructure as Code (IaC) Concepts: Scripting infrastructure deployments instead of relying on Azure GUI. 
- Utilizing Git for version control and managing script versions. 

## TO DO
- Add SSH public key to Azure Key Vault for more secure access to VM. 
- Create an ARM Template to deploy multiple VMs
- Create a VM Scale Set to have better control on the number of VMs as needed. 
- Utilize some kind of error checking. What if there is no Public IP address entered in the Powershell prompt? Is SSH open to the public?
